---
layout: post
title: (Week 3) Thoughts After Finishing the First Project
---



Things that I learned:
- Make changes on a branch, and then merge to master. Don't commit directly.
- It's hard to commicate accross pages with JavaScript.
- Lots of websites  don't use img tags to load images.
- Don't be afraid to start over.
- There can be more than one way to solve a problem, but not all solutions are equal.
- Hackiness > Robustness when you don't care about code longevity.
- You can commit for pretty much any change.
- CSS allows you to manipulate lots of image properties. We used these to discount deepfry our images.
- Blurriness approximates pixellation.
- It can be hard to find high quality images.
- Have someone on your team with photoshop skillz.
- Use Ubuntu workspaces.
- Blogging with git and github is surprisingly useful.
- I still don't quite understand the point of Jekyll. (simplify static web development by transcompiling into html and css, nice)
- I'm trying not to repeat things that I wrote in my last blog post but I need to hit at least 300 words and it's getting hard.
- Good looking icons make you look professional.
- The joke doesn't wear off.

Things to improve on:
- Start working earlier.
- Make sure everyone is on the same page most of the time.
- Get permission from nickelodean to use spongebob. (press x to doubt)
- Make sure to test beforehand so as not to see nYU coURaNt mOuRNs tHe LoSs Of pROfeSsOr loUIS niReNbeRg during the presentation.
- Practice the presentation at least one time. Better yet, more than two times.
- Set up a better development environment so you don't constantly have to open about:debugging in firefox.
- Working at the same time makes things easy for communication, doubly so for working in the same room. 
- Spellcheck your work.
- Pick a good example website to showcase your work.
- Be clever about which features to implement. The easy thing is often almost as good as the hard thing, often better.
- 


