---
layout: post
title: 5 April 2020 Setting Up the Dev Environment
---
This week has been all about getting the development environment set up for our group to work on lemmy.
Things that I had hoped I would accomplish:

1. Run a server (Devon) on my network that hosts lemmy based on the master branch of the class fork.
1. Set up openssh on Devon so that group teammates could ssh onto the server and make changes.
1. Set up Wireguard vpn so that group partners could see dev lemmy without exposing it globally.

The first step was getting the server up and running. I had a spare desktop laying around, so I repurposed it by 
wiping the hard drive and installing ubuntu server. I then went through the process of installing all the required 
packages for lemmy as well as setting up ssh on so that teammates could access it. I then installed wireguard, on the machine
and on my laptop, but unfortunately after many attempts could not get it to work. Fortunately, ngrok provided a decent workaround.
Ngrok establishes a secure tunnel with the server via ssh, then creates a publicly accessible link so that anyone can view 
the website. With ngrok, ssh, and lemmy running, we now have a basic CI/CD pipeline for development. Getting ports open on 
my router was the largest hurdle in this process.

Next steps:
1. Try to implement wireguard again.
1. Set up github hooks so that server automatically updates when changes are pushed to master.
1. Write a bash script that periodically creates and posts ngrok accessible website link.
1. Set up unit tests. (this could be a potential avenue for development because I don't think many exist)
1. Create a theme for lemmy.
1. Start making pull requests on fixes and features we work on.

